Rebecca Dummit
Deep Blue Summary

	In Campbell, Hoane, and Hsu's paper, Deep Blue, the authors discuss the multiple iterations of the chess-playing computer, starting from the 1980s. Initially, there were multiple machines created with the purpose in mind of defeating the world's best chess players, through search functions and specialized hardware to calculate endless combinations of moves. After four iterations (ChipTest, Deep Thought, Deep Thought 2, and Deep Blue I), the authors were able to defeat the chess champion of 1997, Garry Kasparov, with Deep Blue II after many iterations of software and hardware approaches. 
	Essentially, the hardware designed for Deep Blue was a parallel system, keeping in mind that there is a time constraint for how long it would take the player for each move, as the computer has to calculate all the possible moves (or eliminate them in the process). This is mainly achieved through software and hardware customization, by separating the calculations from the root of the tree and the leaf nodes to specialized software and hardware, respectively. 
	Logistically, the software works by having a highly non-uniform search that can dive deeper into the tree faster typical uniform algorithms, given the purpose of this machine was only to play chess. The software initially looks at the root nodes of the tree, deciding what to spend processing power on, then sending tasks to the hardware, which then dives into the leaf nodes of the tree to calculate the best score. This is accomplished by various evaluation functions, highly specialized to the specific, but well-known and complicated moves within chess. 
	Additionally, these calculations can be overridden or supplied with additional info, provided by "books" or databases full of moves and statistical outcomes of success. This includes endgame databases, containing information about failures and successes of the final moves of the game, involving five or fewer pieces on the board. Some of these databases have been written by grandmasters themselves and checked by Deep Blue to store the "best" moves. 
